---
title: TypeScript - 04 - Array
date: 2020-07-03
published: true
cover: ./img/ts-part-4.png
course: 'Typescript for Beginners'
---

We have already looked at how we can use `strings`, `numbers`, and `booleans` in TypeScript. But our programs consist of much more than that.

In this tutorial, we will talk about Arrays in TypeScript.

## JavaScript Array

Let's look at the many different ways we use `arrays` in normal Vanilla JavaScript.

```js
let fruits = ['apples', 'oranges', 'grapefruit'];

let ages = [24, 22, 10, 15, 13, 10, 9, 3];

let isCool = [true, true, true, false, true, true];
```

Above, we have three arrays with different data.

- The first array consists of strings.
- The second array consists of numbers.
- The third one, weird enough, contains booleans of `true` and `false`.

Now, why I am I telling you this. Well, as you saw, TypeScript let's you define types of almost everything in your program, and we saw that with variables.

If for say, what if this were to happen to our code.

```js
let fruits = ['apples', 'oranges', 'grapefruit'];

fruits.push(2);
```

So, what happened? Well, we added the `number` `2` to our array of fruits.
If this were to happen, this could actually mess up our program.

What if the data above was todo's for a specific users in our program? Then accidently we add a number to it. Now this creates a bug in our program that we didn't expect.

## TypeScript Arrays

Let's finally look at how to work with `arrays` in TypeScript.

So, we have an array of fruits, and it contains the data type of `strings`.

```ts
let fruits = ['apples', 'oranges', 'strawberry'];
```

To assign a type to this array, with the data containing strings, we do:

```ts
let fruits: string[] = ['apples', 'oranges', 'strawberry'];
```

Basically, we define that the `strings` are an `array`. Simple enough, right?

### Challenge

Turn the following normal JavaScript arrays to TypeScript type defined arrays.

```js
let ages = [24, 22, 10, 15, 13, 10, 9, 3];

let isCool = [true, true, true, false, true, true];
```

### Solution

Well, you should be able to have done that exercise with your eyes closed most likely.

```ts
let ages: number[] = [24, 22, 10, 15, 13, 10, 9, 3];

let isCool: boolean[] = [true, true, true, false, true, true];
```

### Alternative way to write

Now, there is another way to write arrays in TypeScript.

```ts
let fruits: Array<string> = ['apples', 'oranges', 'strawberry'];
```

In this example, we tell TypeScript it is an array, and we tell it contains strings. This way is more generaic as you get to define the words clearly, but is a bit more letters.

### Challenge

Once again, transfer these arrays into the generaic way we discussed.

```ts
let ages: number[] = [24, 22, 10, 15, 13, 10, 9, 3];

let isCool: boolean[] = [true, true, true, false, true, true];
```

### Solution

```ts
let ages: Array<number> = [24, 22, 10, 15, 13, 10, 9, 3];

let isCool: Array<boolean> = [true, true, true, false, true, true];
```

## Review

So, there are 2 ways to write an array in TypeScript.

One way to use `[]` and another way to `Array<type>`

## Next Up

In the next tutorial, we will learn about Tuples and how they can be useful in TypeScript.
