---
title: Welcome 2021, Days Ahead
date: 2021-01-01
published: true
cover: ./img/2021-new-years.png
---

2021 here we come! I bet the fireworks show that you saw from those frosted windows was ooozing. And don't forget that the flat tire in the back of the lawn actually is a remaining artifact and that it should be disposed in the correct bin.

Alright jokes aside. 2021 is going to be a big starter for many people. Many people have planned 2021 to be the year that they stand up strong. Well, this is exactly I have planned.

Just few days ago, Traversy Media has released his `2021 Web Development Guide` which he releases every year. Well, what better would it be if all those topics could be covered in great detail. That is exactly what I have planned.

With that guide in mind, I am also planning on some great posts that will sure lighten this blog from its darken months it went through last year.

Here is a short list of things you can expect these coming weeks:

- Serenity OS posts (LibGUI)
- A Look at Go
- Practical Rust projects
- JavaScript Library reviews

And with that, I am planning on release loads of content that is sure to keep this year the best year ever!

I will try to post monthly updates on talking about the coming weeks or relfecting upon the past weeks and find room for improvement.

## New Year Resolutions

If you have not already, I suggest you create your list of New Years Resolutions in your hand. Don't plan on creating your resolutions tomorrow, it will just be lifted off until the next year.

This is the perfect times to set goals for what you want to acomplish in the next few weeks. Maybe read some of the posts from last year and create some projects from what I have gone through.

## Open Source Project

Last year I worked on `Devano`, but never made it really far. This year, I will be making it open source and writing a compiler and parser for it! So, you can expect posts on that too!

## OS Development

`OS Dev` was a series I promised last year, however due to some scheduling issues, I was unable to write them. This year, I will continue to work on it and come out with some great posts.

With this series, I am including `Serenity OS` which is definately a great Open Source project to contribute to. If not already, my PR for adding `GML` to the text editor preview should have already merged and be ready to be seen.

The `Serenity OS` series will definately help guide towards contributing to that project and how we can all work on it together to bring it to its full potential.

## New Writing Blog?

Yes, you heard the news! Nano is creating another Blog that will focus exclusively on just entertainment content. There will be some great comedy out on it shortly!

That blog will go hand-in-hand with my comedy book to be released soon!

## Wrapping Up

Alright, so I hope this mini post will bring some light upon this blog and we will begin this year with the best of energy! And don't forget to help the world become a better place, by: wearing a mask, social distancing and sanitization! (HINT: Some cool projects?).

I almost forgot, Happy New Years! 🎉
